index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---

# Welcome to BioNetGen! <img src="assets/flagman.png" width="75" height="72" valign="bottom"/>

BioNetGen is software designed for modular, structure-based modeling of biochemical reaction networks. It can be applied to many other types of modeling as well. It provides a simple, graph-based syntax that lets users build reaction models out of structured objects that can bind and undergo modification.

### Getting Started
**Windows users must have Perl installed to run BioNetGen at all.** We recommend [Strawberry Perl](https://strawberryperl.com/).


Use [PyBioNetGen](https://pybionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html) and the [VS Code Extension](https://bng-vscode-extension.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html) together for best results.

The best way to get help, report a bug, or request a feature is to post an issue on the appropriate project's GitHub issues page. Otherwise, you may send an email to <bionetgen.help@gmail.com>. All help requests, including models or model snippets, will be treated *confidentially*.

### News
 - A command line tool for weighted ensemble sampling of BNGL models, **WEBNG**, has been released. See the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ASinanSaglam/webng) and the [documentation](https://webng.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
 - **WARNING for MacOS users**: New versions of OS X (11.5 or newer) might force you to switch your default shell to zsh (see [here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208050)). This will break the extension if you are using Anaconda Python, since it will no longer be your default Python in zsh. Try renaming your `.bash-profile` to `.zprofile`.

### Other tools

- [RuleBender](https://github.com/RuleWorld/rulebender/releases/latest) provides an Eclispe-based interface for BioNetGen that includes interactive model visualization capabilities. **NOTICE**: RuleBender is no longer being developed or supported. Please use PyBioNetGen and the VS Code extension instead.
- [BioNetGen command line](https://github.com/RuleWorld/bionetgen/releases/latest). The core BioNetGen code includes a command-line interface that may be useful to developers and advanced users. The BioNetGen code is bundled with both PyBioNetGen and RuleBender.

### Citing BioNetGen

If you use BioNetGen for a project please cite 
- Harris, L. A. *et al.* [BioNetGen 2.2: advances in rule-based
modeling](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw469).
*Bioinformatics* **32,** 3366–3368 (2016).

In addition, consider sending us an 
[email](mailto:bionetgen.help@gmail.com) or tweet 
[@bionetgen](http://twitter.com/bionetgen). We’d love to hear about it!

### Acknowledgements

Current development of BioNetGen is supported in part by the
NIGMS-funded (P41GM103712) National Center for Multiscale Modeling of
Biological Systems
([MMBioS](http://mmbios.org/ "http://mmbios.org")).
Past support has been provided by NIH grants (GM076570, GM103712,
GM085273, AI35997, CA109552), NSF grant 0829788, the Arizona Biomedical
Research Commission, and the Department of Computational Biology at the
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

BioNetGen and this website are maintained by the [Lab of James Faeder](http://www.csb.pitt.edu/Faculty/Faeder/) in the [Department of Computational and Systems Biology](http://www.csb.pitt.edu) and the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

Commit message:

Made download information more prominent on home page; added some extra links

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---

# Welcome to BioNetGen! <img src="assets/flagman.png" width="75" height="72" valign="bottom"/>

BioNetGen is software designed for modular, structure-based modeling of biochemical reaction networks. It can be applied to many other types of modeling as well. It provides a simple, graph-based syntax that lets users build reaction models out of structured objects that can bind and undergo modification.

### Download & Getting Started
**Windows users must have Perl installed to run BioNetGen at all.** We recommend [Strawberry Perl](https://strawberryperl.com/).

To begin using BioNetGen, see the [installation instructions](https://bng-vscode-extension.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html) in the documentation. This will guide new users through installing VS Code, the BNG extension, and PyBioNetGen. Again, Windows users must ensure they have some version of Perl installed to run BioNetGen.

The best way to get help, report a bug, or request a feature is to post an issue on the appropriate project's GitHub issues page. Otherwise, you may send an email to <bionetgen.help@gmail.com>. All help requests, including models or model snippets, will be treated *confidentially*.

### News
 - A command line tool for weighted ensemble sampling of BNGL models, **WEBNG**, has been released. See the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ASinanSaglam/webng) and the [documentation](https://webng.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
 - **WARNING for MacOS users**: New versions of OS X (11.5 or newer) might force you to switch your default shell to zsh (see [here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208050)). This will break the extension if you are using Anaconda Python, since it will no longer be your default Python in zsh. Try renaming your `.bash-profile` to `.zprofile`.

### Other tools

- [RuleBender](https://github.com/RuleWorld/rulebender/releases/latest) provides an Eclispe-based interface for BioNetGen that includes interactive model visualization capabilities. **NOTICE**: RuleBender is no longer being developed or supported. Please use PyBioNetGen and the VS Code extension instead.
- [BioNetGen command line](https://github.com/RuleWorld/bionetgen/releases/latest). The core BioNetGen code includes a command-line interface that may be useful to developers and advanced users. The BioNetGen code is bundled with both PyBioNetGen and RuleBender.

### Citing BioNetGen

If you use BioNetGen for a project please cite 
- Harris, L. A. *et al.* [BioNetGen 2.2: advances in rule-based
modeling](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw469).
*Bioinformatics* **32,** 3366–3368 (2016).

In addition, consider sending us an 
[email](mailto:bionetgen.help@gmail.com) or tweet 
[@bionetgen](http://twitter.com/bionetgen). We’d love to hear about it!

### Acknowledgements

Current development of BioNetGen is supported in part by the
NIGMS-funded (P41GM103712) National Center for Multiscale Modeling of
Biological Systems
([MMBioS](http://mmbios.org/ "http://mmbios.org")).
Past support has been provided by NIH grants (GM076570, GM103712,
GM085273, AI35997, CA109552), NSF grant 0829788, the Arizona Biomedical
Research Commission, and the Department of Computational Biology at the
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

BioNetGen and this website are maintained by the [Lab of James Faeder](http://www.csb.pitt.edu/Faculty/Faeder/) in the [Department of Computational and Systems Biology](http://www.csb.pitt.edu) and the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.
