resources.md, before:

---
title: Resources
layout: default
permalink: /resources
nav_order: 4
has_children: true
---

<!-- {% include youtube_player.html id="ZnP-yLpAJIE" %} -->

# Further Resources
These sections include links to documentation, tutorials, and literature relating to BioNetGen and its related projects, as well as frequently asked questions.

## Resources
- Documentation
     - [BioNetGen](https://bionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
     - [PyBioNetGen](https://pybionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
     - [VS Code Extension](https://bng-vscode-extension.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
     - [Atomizer](https://pybionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/atomizer.html)
- Reference
     - [Quick Reference Guide](https://github.com/RuleWorld/bionetgen/blob/master/docs/unused/QRG-30Mar2016.pdf)
     - [Actions and Arguments](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Co0bPgMmOyAFxbYnGCmwKzoEsY2aUCMtJXQNpQCEUag/edit?usp=sharing)
     - [BNGL Grammar](https://github.com/RuleWorld/BNG_vscode_extension/blob/main/bngl-grammar-ebnf.pdf)
- Getting Started
     -   [Modeling Reaction Networks with BioNetGen](https://github.com/mcellteam/Workshop_2021/blob/master/bionetgen/slides/CMW2021-IntroToRxnNetModelingBNG.pptx?raw=true). Introduces basic BioNetGen block syntax, actions, and workflows for simulating models, plotting results, and parameter scanning.
     -   [Rule-Based Modeling with BioNetGen](https://github.com/mcellteam/Workshop_2021/blob/master/bionetgen/slides/CMW2021-IntroRBM.pptx?raw=true). Introduces the concepts and syntax for modeling biochemical networks using structured molecules and rules in BioNetGen.
     -   [BioNetGen tutorial on GitHub](/tutorial). Provides detailed examples that demonstrate a wide range of language and modeling features.
     -   [MMBioS Cell Modeling Workship 2021 videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHmIPhi01uH9P0bk17Ul-WCcSk86wiW_6). See videos 1-4 and 13-15 for basic walkthroughs and more advanced topics using BioNetGen.
- Papers
    -   [Application Note](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw469) (open
    access)
    -   [BioNetGen Primer](https://link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007%2F978-1-61779-833-7_9) ([pdf
    –
    free](https://www.dropbox.com/s/rm0535pgom2zr6i/Sekar-RuleBasedPrimer-2012.pdf?dl=0))
    -   [BioNetGen Bible](https://link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007%2F978-1-59745-525-1_5) ([pdf
    –
    free](https://www.csb.pitt.edu/Faculty/Faeder/Publications/Reprints/Faeder_2009.pdf))
    -   [Published BioNetGen models](/applications)

Commit message:

Added new information about software; added link to Biological Modeling tutorials

resources.md, after:

---
title: Resources
layout: default
permalink: /resources
nav_order: 4
has_children: true
---

<!-- {% include youtube_player.html id="ZnP-yLpAJIE" %} -->

# Further Resources
These sections include links to documentation, tutorials, and literature relating to BioNetGen and its related projects, as well as frequently asked questions.

## Resources
- Documentation
     - [BioNetGen](https://bionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
     - [PyBioNetGen](https://pybionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
     - [VS Code Extension](https://bng-vscode-extension.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
     - [Atomizer](https://pybionetgen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/atomizer.html)
- Reference
     - [Quick Reference Guide](https://github.com/RuleWorld/bionetgen/blob/master/docs/unused/QRG-30Mar2016.pdf)
     - [Actions and Arguments](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Co0bPgMmOyAFxbYnGCmwKzoEsY2aUCMtJXQNpQCEUag/edit?usp=sharing)
     - [BNGL Grammar](https://github.com/RuleWorld/BNG_vscode_extension/blob/main/bngl-grammar-ebnf.pdf)
- Getting Started
     - [Modeling Reaction Networks with BioNetGen](https://github.com/mcellteam/Workshop_2021/blob/master/bionetgen/slides/CMW2021-IntroToRxnNetModelingBNG.pptx?raw=true). Introduces basic BioNetGen block syntax, actions, and workflows for simulating models, plotting results, and parameter scanning.
     - [Rule-Based Modeling with BioNetGen](https://github.com/mcellteam/Workshop_2021/blob/master/bionetgen/slides/CMW2021-IntroRBM.pptx?raw=true). Introduces the concepts and syntax for modeling biochemical networks using structured molecules and rules in BioNetGen.
     - [BioNetGen tutorial on GitHub](/tutorial). Provides detailed examples that demonstrate a wide range of language and modeling features.
     - [MMBioS Cell Modeling Workship 2021 videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHmIPhi01uH9P0bk17Ul-WCcSk86wiW_6). See videos 1-4 and 13-15 for basic walkthroughs and more advanced topics using BioNetGen.
- Papers
    - [Application Note](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw469) (open
    access)
    - [BioNetGen Primer](https://link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007%2F978-1-61779-833-7_9) ([pdf
    –
    free](https://www.dropbox.com/s/rm0535pgom2zr6i/Sekar-RuleBasedPrimer-2012.pdf?dl=0))
    - [BioNetGen Bible](https://link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007%2F978-1-59745-525-1_5) ([pdf
    –
    free](https://www.csb.pitt.edu/Faculty/Faeder/Publications/Reprints/Faeder_2009.pdf))
    - [Published BioNetGen models](/applications)
- Educational
    - [Biological Modeling](https://biologicalmodeling.org/): [Module 2](https://biologicalmodeling.org/chemotaxis/home) uses BioNetGen, including step-by-step tutorials
