{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green35\blue228;\red0\green80\blue177;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13320\viewh11280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Welcome to BioNetWiki!\
\
As you have requested, an account has been created on the BioNetWiki ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bionetgen.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 http://bionetgen.org}}) that will allow you to log in to access both the download area and the online documentation.\'a0 Your account information should have already arrived.\'a0 If you did not receive an email from bionetgen.org, you may want to check to see if the message got caught in your spam filter.\'a0 The password is initially set to be the same as your login.\'a0 Please log in immediately upon receipt of this email and click on the "preferences" button in the upper right hand corner of the browser window to reset your password.\'a0 If you want to use any of the email features of the wiki, you will also need to click on "Confirm your e-mail address" in the E-mail section of the Preferences/User profile page.\
\
A detailed book chapter describing BioNetGen, aka 'The BioNetGen Bible,\'a0 is available in the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bionetgen.org/index.php/Documentation"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Documentation}}\'a0section of the wiki. \'a0A new primer focusing on modeling of cell signaling is also available as a preprint\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dl.dropbox.com/u/9028382/Reprints/RuleBasedPrimer-2011.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 here}}.\
\
We also have an exciting new IDE tool for BioNetGen called RuleBender, which can be downloaded at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://rulebender.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://rulebender.org}}. \'a0It includes a complete BioNetGen distribution with source code.\
\'a0\
The latest distribution of the BioNetGen software can be downloaded by clicking on the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bionetgen.org/index.php/Installation_Guide"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Installation Guide}}\'a0link on the main wiki page and following the instructions there. Don't hesitate to send email to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:bionetgen@lanl.gov"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 bionetgen@lanl.gov}}\'a0if you have any problems or questions.\
\
When citing BioNetGen please refer to J. R. Faeder, M. L. Blinov, and W. S. Hlavacek, "Rule-Based Modeling of Biochemical Systems with BioNetGen",\'a0
\i Methods Mol. Biol.
\i0 , 500, 113-167, 2009.\'a0 If you publish a paper that includes BioNetGen models please let us know.\'a0 We would love to hear about it!\
}